Schmidgall S, Ziaei R, Harris C, Kim JW, Reis EP, Jopling J, Moor M. AgentClinic:
a multimodal benchmark for tool-using clinical AI agents. npj Digit Med.
2026;9:499. doi:10.1038/s41746-026-02674-7. PMID 42045532.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41746-026-02674-7
Code: https://github.com/SamuelSchmidgall/AgentClinic
Model host in the bibliography (not a medical source): https://huggingface.co/meta-llama

Evaluating large language models (LLM) in clinical scenarios is crucial to
assessing their potential clinical utility. Existing benchmarks rely heavily on
static question-answering, which does not accurately depict the complex,
sequential nature of clinical decision-making. Here, we introduce AgentClinic, a
multimodal agent benchmark for evaluating LLMs in simulated clinical
environments that include patient interactions, multimodal data collection under
incomplete information, and the usage of various tools, resulting in an in-depth
evaluation across nine medical specialties and seven languages. We find that
solving MedQA problems in the sequential decision-making format of AgentClinic
is considerably more challenging, resulting in diagnostic accuracies that can
drop to below a tenth of the original accuracy. Overall, we observe that agents
sourced from Claude-3.5 outperform other LLM backbones in most settings.
Nevertheless, we see stark differences in the LLMs' ability to make use of
tools, such as experiential learning, adaptive retrieval, and reflection cycles.
Strikingly, Llama-3 shows up to 92% relative improvements with the notebook tool
that allows for writing and editing notes that persist across cases. To further
scrutinize our clinical simulations, we leverage real-world electronic health
records, perform a clinical reader study, perturb agents with biases, and
explore patient-centric metrics that this interactive environment enables.

Four language agents are used in the AgentClinic benchmark: a patient agent,
doctor agent, measurement agent, and a moderator. The doctor agent serves as the
model whose performance is being evaluated, and the other three agents serve to
provide this evaluation. After the final turn, the agent must provide its
diagnosis, which is then evaluated by the moderator. The function of the
moderator is to determine whether the doctor agent has correctly diagnosed the
patient using a ground truth accuracy label provided to the moderator. We use
GPT-4 as the patient agent for consistency.

One potential limitation of the presented workflow comes from the use of an LLM
for determining accuracy via the moderator agent (albeit, provided a ground
truth). Recent research has shown that strong LLM judges like GPT-4 can match
human preferences. Experiments on varying the patient LLM suggest that there may
be an advantage for LLMs which act as both the patient and the doctor agent,
because LLMs are able to recognize their own text with high accuracy, and
display disproportionate preference to that text. While our moderator agent is
based on an LLM judge shown to have high agreement with humans, the sensitivity
of our benchmark results to variations in the moderator agent's own model or
system prompt was not explored. This excerpt does not prescribe treatment.
